### Siamese-based Tracking

Benefiting from the rapid development of deep learning and a series of strong tracking baselines, single object tracking based on CNN has made great achievements, especially siamese-based methods[SiamFC]. Compared with traditional algorithms, SiamFC has a backbone of shared weights for template and search, a simple feature correlation module, and a fully convolutional network for bounding box prediction. It is more concise and effective with real-time tracking speed. [SiamRPN] introduced the RPN network from [Faster R-CNN], greatly reducing the time consumption of proposal extraction. Due to the superior performance and time efficiency of RPN, [SiamRPN] has got better performance and speed. After that, [SiamRPN++] change the backbone from [AlexNet] to [ResNet], using a deeper CNN network to extract more semantic information. So the latter modules, such as feature correlation can make full use of this information for higher tracking performance.

Contrary to offline training, online training[ATOM], [DiMP], [KeepTrack] aims to design an algorithm that can update parameters when the tracker is running for adapting to the current tracking task. Although online tracking has an edge in some challenging scenarios, designing such an effective tracking algorithm is challengeable.

### Vision Transformer

Transformer was first proposed by [xxx] to deal with machine translation tasks. Due to excellent long-distance modeling capability and parallel computing, it dominated NLP soon and was gradually introduced to different vision fields by researchers. Up to now, numerous research results show that it is generic and effective.

[DETR] first attempted to apply Transformer to vision tasks. They directly model object detection as an end-to-end task without any post-processing, domain knowledge, or hand-crafted procedure, and achieves a state-of-the-art performance. Some follow-up work like [Deformable DETR] has been proposed successively and achieved superior performance.

Inspired by the spectacular success of [BETR] and [GPT family] in [NLP], vision researchers have tried to introduce the method that pretraining large model on large-scale datasets into vision tasks. Vison Transformer[ViT] as a strong vision baseline was proposed firstly. Considering self-attention operation has a quadratic calculation consumption, [ViT] directly divides the image into fixed-size(16) patches as the input tokens of the first Transformer encoder block. Thus [ViT] can easily implement multi-head self-attention in transformer encoder like [BERT]. Although the overall structure of ViT is considerably elegant, it may lose some essential intermediate information for current research tasks. To improve ViT, many follow-up works are carried out[CvT] [ViViT] [PiT] [MAE].

Although the above series of works have made great achievements, there are not any progressive down-sampling stages. [PvT] was proposed to solve this problem. By designing similar down sampling rules like [Conv], the whole architecture of the network has been divided into 3 stages. It is well-known that transformer is an expert in a long sequence, but it is limited to the computation cost of raw self-attention of the high-resolution input in vision tasks. [MHA] can be executed in stage 1 and stage 2 by reducing KV. In this way, [PvT] realized the multi-stage architecture of the vision transformer and reached a comparable performance. Almost at the same time, another great influence work[SwinT] has been published. Unlike [PvT], [SwinT] divides image patches into multiple windows of the same size and performs MHA in a single window. To conduct information interaction between different blocks, [SwinT] designed a shift-window mechanism. Experiment results show that [SwinT] reaches a state-of-the-art comparable performance. Some later works using huge parameters[SwinT-v2] and self-supervised training method[SimMiM] achieved better performance. [P2T] is the improved version compared to [PVT], they use learnable pooling to reduce the sequence length and parameters. So transformer can be applied successfully on the original inputs, and the algorithm is much more lightly.

### Transformer in Object Tracking

Since transformer was successfully introduced into vision tasks, transformer-based tracking methods have been proposed continuously. [SiamAttn] designed a [Deformable Siamese Attention, DSA] module based on [Deformable transformer] for feature extraction and relation modeling. Although [SiamAttn] fully used the superior long-range modeling capability and encoding advantage, it includes some hand-crafted processes. [TransT] proposed an attention-based feature fusion network applied to the Siamese-based feature extraction backbone without RPN. The [ECA, ego-context augment] module is based on self-attention and [CFA, cross-feature augment module] is based on cross-attention like the [Deformable Self Attention, DSA] in [SiamAttn] with the same function. The later Siamese-based work almost all inherit this idea, just slightly different in details. [Stark] designs a different attention approach, which uses the concatenated flattened feature of the template and search image from the backbone as a relation modeling module based on transformer encoder-decoder structure. In addition, they also designed a scoring module to update the template for some challenging scenarios. This end-to-end architecture achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple challenging short-term and long-term benchmarks while running at real-time speed. [SwinTrack] tried to use an end-to-end fully transformer-based architecture for tracking. They replace [ResNet] with [Swin Transformer] as the backbone. The methods mentioned above are almost all Siamese-based, in which template and search image are sent into the network separately and share the weight in the feature extraction stage. Some recent work shows that the [one-stream] pattern simultaneously extracting feature and relation model is more suitable for tracking tasks. [OStrack] applied [ViT ]as the backbone network to conduct feature extraction and relation modeling under the Transformer-based attention mechanism. [MixFormer] exploits [CvT] as the backbone instead. They use 3 stages progressively down sampling the inputs. This method is instrumental for vision downstream tasks like tracking, and can make full use of the original input information.

Inspired by [OSTrack] and [MixFormer], we propose a new tracking method, using [P2T] as backbone and referencing the one-stream idea simultaneously to conduct feature extraction and template-search relation modeling. Specifically, we concatenate the template image features and search image features, and use the result as the [P-MHA] input. After that, the 3rd stage outputs are the inputs of another specially designed feature argument module formed by 4 repeatedly stacked blocks. Then, the outputs are sent into a bounding box prediction head constructed by some fully connected network[CenterNet] [OSTrack] [MixFormer] to get final results.